---
title: "Chicago"
description: "I've got the adequate committee"
pubDate: "May 24 2026"
heroImage: "/chicago.webp"
tags: ["shouts & murmurs",]
---

Ah windy city, the crown jewel of midwestern festivities. I come in the bewildering month of May, the typical is-it-summer-yet-type identity crisis lurking around the corner, misty mornings, a glimpse of sun over Millenium Park, already buzzing with picnic enthusiasts, admirers of steel structures, young couples doing that one trick shot of pinching the bean in between their fingers, *fruteros* selling sliced up mangos and watermelons (Tajín optional), and the illusion of a much warmer weather. Pritzker Pavilion still fenced up, its dendritic branches visible, silently gathering intelligence against the backdrop of the eastside skyline, which is comprised primarily of - you guessed it - insurance giants, the likes of Blue Cross Blue Shield, Prudential and Aon, a reserved affinity for corporate America running deep here in the heartland, the sincerity of which is said to have paralyzed more than a dozen east coast leftists.

I hopped on the Metra, or was it the CTA? What's the difference now, but a rumbling reminder of another has-been industry squandered by the relentless rise of the CME and commodity trading.  Double deckered, aisle open to the above, tinted glasses letting in splashes of the afternoon sun in what has quietly become a shower now? Uh-oh. Conductor coming through, dressed exactly as one would envision in period-accurate pieces, which is to say congruent to that of LIRR or amtrak, tickets examined, scanned, punched, and pleasantries exchanged. The train car seated no more than 6 passengers, myself included, South Side residents who seemed to have been recently reunited by a downtown brunch encounter, sterotypical ChicagoU students, scheming away in sterotypical ChicagoU language, you know, getting too comfortable with the word 'orthogonal' and stuff. I watched them get off at Hyde Park, disappearing soon into the distant green.

Griffin Museum of Science and Industry. If it isn't Mr. Citadel coming to rescue the neighborhood sweetheart. A wonderful concoction of environmental activism, marginally informational replicas of mining facilities, Buster Keaton playing in a make-believe movie theater of Main St. USA of yesteryear, a Burlington Zephyr converted to an infodesk. I found myself onboard a captured German U-505 submarine, confined in a concrete basement just steps off of the SpiderVerse exhibition, having sunk 8 ships of the Allied Forces over 12 patrols across the Atlantic, almost scuttled at the command of *Oblt.z.S.* Harald Lange, bids farewells to the familiar shores of Western Africa, and finds herself in the navy base of Bermuda, before permanently resting here in Illinois, in this repurposed neo-classical Palace of the Fine Arts from the *1893 World's Columbian Exposition*, "the White City", when the barbarity of war seemed ludicrous and it was jointly decided that humanity's attention is better focused on whimsical innovations such as the Ferris Wheel or zippers, cute. Among the celebrants of the time is Stefan Zweig, who would proceed to end his life in Petrópolis, Brazil in 1942, at the height of Nazi domination, 2 years before the capture of this dormant U-boat, 3 years before the unconditional surrender of the Third Reich.

Taxi into Chinatown. Stepping into this hoarder's wet dream of a Cantonese restaurant, I knew I hit the jackpot. Redwood furniture arranged haphazardly in the main dining room, butcher papers covering the multi-flavored grease and aromas burned into the tabletops since the Old Country, aquarium in one corner, crammed with exotic fishes fighting for survival at the tip of the oxygen pump, TVB Pearl going off above, some daytime drama revolving around a missing child and his psychotic parents, apparently capturing the interest of most patrons and the owner, surrounded by giant pots of Golden Pothos and Spider Plants, gesturing me to a nearby table to commence my solo dining experience. Of course the rice was served in a metal plate piping hot, the shrimp freshly battered and stir fried in a salted egg yolk reduction, the scrambled egg swimming in the natural fat rendered from the in-house Char-Siu, and peashoots, still in season, audibly green and blindingly crunchy, while the waitress marvels at the speed of my intake, at a distance of course.

Nearing dawn when I headed out, caught the watertaxi up the Southern Branch, Sears Tower - spelled W-I-L-L-I-S - beginning to light up its surroundings, *Wilco* or *the Smashing Pumpkins* slowly making their way back to my playlist. The day is catching up on me, I think I'll be out in search of something sweet, perhaps a cookie or a Cake Shake, if a Portillo's shall present itself, and watch the Michigan blue dissolve into another evening at the doorsteps of summer, with or without my permission.