---
title: "A New Yorker At Large"
description: "A dispersion of a new york friend group"
pubDate: "May 2 2025"
heroImage: "/low_steps.png"
tags: ["shouts & murmurs",]
---
For the uninformed commoners that make up for 99.99% of the world's population, StreetEasy is an unknown subsidiary of the painfully mundane real estate sales company Zillow; but for the millions of residents dragging themselves across the bloodbath that is NYC rental market, the app is quite literally digital cocaine. You are constantly embarrassed by the number of hours if not days that you spent mindlessly scrolling through tens of thousands of listings, juggling between your budget and your unrealistic fantasy of having a terrace in the city, all while dodging the endless marketing schemes and wordplays targeting amateur renters that fall for the ludicrous notion that they have somehow discovered a hidden gem of a unit that ticks all their boxes at half the market rate.


As you make your daily commute across the east river, you see yet another advertisement from the company above the subway doors, a series of portraits taken of people in soul-crushingly bland rural settings, with the same caption attached to them - never become a former new yorker. The implication being their involuntary departures from the city was due to a lack of access to the affordable rental listings available on the platform. You laughed a little, and thought about your time on the Upper West Side, when all of life's jigsaw pieces seemed to fall into the right places - all because of the discovery of a perfect rental.


You stand by the fact that central park west is your favorite avenue in the entirety of New York City. Specifically the intersection of CPW and 93rd street, where Billy's hot dog stand, the proclaimed NYC hot dog establishment permanently resides. On weekdays you see high schoolers from the nearby Columbia Grammar and Preparatory School lining up behind the unassuming food cart during lunch hours, consuming three in a row, and saving a spare for an afternoon energy boost. No relish, onions or any condiments, just a slab of processed meat stuck between buns, swallowed whole. You remembered enjoying your lunch hours back in high school in Harbin, sharing a similar passion for proteins with carbs, which often was presented in the delectable format of a Rou Jia Mo (promoted as a "Chinese burger" by the famed  Xi'an Famous), where slow-cooked fatty, savory pork belly is finely chopped and stuffed into a freshly-baked, wonderfully-crumbly puff-pastry bun. Hunger struck differently as a teenager, when summoned, one has almost a primal instinct to stuff his face with the cheapest, most filling meal available within a 1-mile radius, giving absolutely no regard for balance of nutrients nor calorie intakes. It's a bit melodramatic for a 24-year-old to write about his perishing youth and his inability to consume excessive amounts of food, but you do occasionally reminisce over your once insatiable appetite and lightening-fast metabolism, and the many good friends that you shared those indulgent meals with.


W 93rd St. also happens to be where your first apartment sits. In hindsight, it's probably not as glamorous a place of abode as I had pictured it to be. Romanticize much? Located on the first floor facing north, you rarely get any sunlight during the day, and the already limited square footage is further fragmented by narrow corridors and doors that were stuck ajar. You also had your fair share of the city's most senior citizens: roaches. The grim days of December are usually spent battling the gruesome New York winds and these mind boggling creatures that casually lounge in your beloved utensils drawer. At one point it had become so bad you had to put up roach traps all over the kitchen and paused all your culinary experiments altogether, capturing averaging three suspects per night, or four, if you count the hand of an undiscerning friend. As eventful as the stay at your humble domicile turned out to be, it was undeniably yours. And after 4 years of sharing bathrooms with roommates, cooking with strangers, and barely tolerating late-night screamers down the hallway in a college dorm, it was exactly what you needed, a space behind closed doors you could call your own. You were keen to size up the dimensions, discuss layouts, and order extraneous furniture such as a bean bag or a coffee table (seriously, what do people use it for?). Even mundane chores such as opening a ConEd account, or calling a Verizon technician to set up the routers were elevated to a status of sanctity, as if the keys to adulthood lied in ticking off every box in a pre-move-in checklist. For the entire month of May, you can find us running up and down the street of West 93rd, bearing groceries mimicking the choices of more seasoned adults, and a completely unjustified optimism for the upcoming year. Only much later, as you helped Michelle set up her own modem and furniture set in California, did these flashes of dejavu strike you for what felt like a century ago. Ode to a time machine.


The choice to settle yourselves within the Upper West Side community was not a capricious one, it was, in fact, a rather calculated move. You were commuting to Midtown East for work daily and Michelle was still going to school up at Columbia, and so this little hub of condos and rental buildings in the lower 90s provided access to both the campus and by extension your friends, as well as a decent transportation downtown. You had both developed this morbid attachment to the school, while she was still enrolled as a masters student, you were in no way associated with the Morningside Heights any more; yet you found yourself constantly lurking on the school subreddit, aptly named Virtual Low Steps, searching for gossips and news of classes you've taken and professors you've known, much like a drowning squirrel holding on to every piece of twig that promised of land. Columbia was all that you've known in NYC, and for better or worse, you were not quite ready to let go of its encompassing presence just yet. You visited the campus regularly, often gathering at the modest Chinese restaurant Happy Hot Hunan (lovingly abbreviated as HHH) and its more upscale counterpart Atlas Kitchen. You later learned that the growing streak of Chinese restaurants between Broadway and Amsterdam in the upper 100s were accredited as the "New Chinatown" of Upper West Side by food critics who frequented the likes of Le Bernardin and Carbone. To us, they were just convenient eateries that served up affordable, hearty dishes that resembled, to varying degrees, the cookings back home. Your mutual friends Leo and Shelly were keen participants in these gatherings, who, out of their own volition, had decided to extend their undergrad life at Columbia for an extra year which nicely coincided with your stay in upper west. And so for a few nights a month, you'll catch up on the latest talk of the town, and pretend, at least for a few hours, that you had your life on track. Your deeply misantropic nature and utter despise for large gatherings had mostly shielded you off from making many friends in the city where supposedly a cynic like yourself should find your community, Leo and Shelly were the glaring exceptions. One of them now walks down the damp, narrow cobbled streets of Boston pondering on the frontier of material physics while leaving room for the most random side quests; the other spends time in music studios and occasionally podiatrists' offices, attempting to educate the Chinese music industry, one original composition at a time. Working in finance, you are well versed in the perils of an under diversified portfolio yet repeatedly refused to hedge the tail risk of them leaving the city. Guess you were just bamboozled by their idiosyncrasies.


You remembered taking these aimlessly long walks alongside Amsterdam or CPW, always on a breezy summer night. You would walk all the way down to the Natural History Museum and protest that you were tired from work, while Michelle kept her interest in exploring the never-ending list of bougie cafes and dessert shops along the way. In the end, you'd probably settle for the tried and true treats you've always loved from Van Leeuwen or Levain Bakery, but you'd like to remember yourselves as more adventurous than that. After a bountiful hunt through the upper 80s, you would return home safe and sound to the soothing opening credit of Brooklyn Nine-Nine, and feast on the result of your hardwork. Why wouldn't you? For all you knew, life was bound to continue that way.


Sometimes you wonder if you truly appreciate the experience of living in New York, or just kept doing it out of inertia. As you quickly snapped a photo of the comical ad you saw on the subway, you realized the 3-hour difference between you and Michelle, and that she falls right into the former population of the city being satirized. You deeply contested the tendency to indulge in nastalgia and equated it with the downfall of an independent mind, but you decided to cut yourself some slack today, as you recently lost your best friend in the city to the Golden State.